request_uri extension (#59)
openid/OpenID4VP: diagrams/request_uri_mode_create.md

```plantuml
@startuml

autonumber

box "Wallet"
participant "Metadata" as wm
participant "Authorization Endpoint" as w
end box

participant "User Agent" as u

box "Verifier"
participant "Frontend" as r
participant "Request Endpoint" as rp
participant "Response Endpoint" as rb
end box

u --> r : use
activate r

> r --> u: authorization request\n(client_id, request{request_uri, request_uri_mode=POST, state})

Reviewer: isn't the state parameter provided in the request object obtained from the request_uri?

Author: it's contained in both, where the state from the authorization request is sent to the request URI. This allows the verifier to identify the origin/context of the request URI request. It then may add a state to the new request object, too.

Reviewer: > it may add a state to the new request object too

ok, points below needs clarifications:

- may it have the state only in the request object and not in the url params?
- what happen if the state is in both places but with different values?

> r --> u: authorization request\n(client_id, request{request_uri, request_uri_mode=POST, state})

Reviewer 2: Is the intention of reusing the request_uri here? It will not work because according to this PR the request_uri is not a URI but a Request Object? Request_uri has to remain the same according to RFC9101 to have backwards-compatiblity. If this intending to be a breaking change then we should not overload request_uri but make the different paths more clear

Author: similar comment as above, right? See my answer there, pls.

> r --> u: **signed authorization request**\n(client_id, request_uri, request_uri_mode=create, state)

Reviewer 3: 1. Not clear why request in this step has to be signed. This does not add any security. I'd rather provide the Authz Request parameters unsigned. NOTE: JAR does not sign `client_id` either if `request_uri` (or `request`) is used in the Authorization Request.
2. I believe there is a typo in this step: `request_uri_mode=create`, it should rather be `request_uri_mode=POST`.
3. I would rename the `request_uri_mode=POST` to `request_uri_mode=post_metadata_exchange`. This indicates additional AS metadata is provided plus a `w_nonce`.

Reviewer: few remarks

1. having the request_uri where the singed request can be obtained, this http response (not a request) should be unsigned

2. `request_uri_mode` -> `request_uri_methods`, type Array, enabling one or more methods, eg: GET and POST. I'd move this information in the RP's metadata if we don't have any particular reason to keep it here in the request.

Reviewer: @awoie I got perfectly your point, however I would not mix http methods with applicative of functional scopes like the metadata exchange.

my proposal is simple @tlodderstedt 

````
r --> u: **response**\n(client_id, request_uri, discovery_uri, state)
````

if the RP supports the wallet metadata discovery, it provides the discovery_uri (method POST)
if the wallet supports the discovery, it provides its metadata to the RP using http POST application/json

if at least no one supports the wallet metadata discovery the only choice is going ahead to the request_uri endpoint with a presumed common set of features.

nothing else, I hope that you find it easy as me as when I was thinking to it.

Author: > 1. Not clear why request in this step has to be signed. This does not add any security. I'd rather provide the Authz Request parameters unsigned. NOTE: JAR does not sign specifically the `client_id` either if `request_uri` is used in the Authorization Request. The `client_id` has to be always present in the query string parameters.

The signed request allows the wallet to authenticate the verifier before performing any further processing of the request. So the wallet may decide not to send a request to the request uri if it cannot trust the sender.

Author: > 3\. I would rename the `request_uri_mode=POST` to `request_uri_mode=post_metadata_exchange` or `pmx` (as in post metadata exchange request URI mode). This indicates additional AS metadata is provided plus a `w_nonce`.

How would you designate the "GET" method?

Author: > @awoie I got perfectly your point, however I would not mix http methods with applicative or functional scopes like the metadata exchange.
> 
> my proposal is simple @tlodderstedt
> 
> ```
> r --> u: **response**\n(client_id, request_uri, discovery_uri, state)
> ```
> 
> if the RP supports the wallet metadata discovery, it provides the discovery_uri (method POST) if the wallet supports the discovery, it provides its metadata to the RP using http POST application/json
> 
> if at least no one supports the wallet metadata discovery the only choice is going ahead to the request_uri endpoint with a presumed common set of features.
> 
> nothing else, I hope that you find it easy as me as when I was thinking to it.

no need for sending two uris. if the wallet does not support the new method, it will ignore the request_uri_mode parameter and just send a GET to the request uri.

Reviewer 4: > > 1. Not clear why request in this step has to be signed. This does not add any security. I'd rather provide the Authz Request parameters unsigned. NOTE: JAR does not sign specifically the `client_id` either if `request_uri` is used in the Authorization Request. The `client_id` has to be always present in the query string parameters.
> 
> The signed request allows the wallet to authenticate the verifier before performing any further processing of the request. So the wallet may decide not to send a request to the request uri if it cannot trust the sender.

This is only true if the wallet has some means of getting a trustworthy public key of the sender i.e. a trust infrastructure is present. So in general it is not that useful. OTOH, the signature is not necessary with a trust infrastructure because the wallet can assume the sender is telling the truth about its identity, and get the sender's metadata from the identity endpoint provided by the trust infrastructure. i.e. the wallet does not need to believe anything that an unknown sender tells it. And having a signed message from an unknown sender whose public key you cannot validate because the wallet does not have a trust infrastructure, provides no security except message integrity.

Reviewer: > no need for sending two uris. if the wallet does not support the new method, it will ignore the request_uri_mode parameter and just send a GET to the request uri.

@tlodderstedt ok, I approve this and I'm going to implement this. We'll continue with the definition of the details with this PR

deactivate r

> u --> w: **signed authorization request**\n(client_id, request_uri, request_uri_mode=create, state)

Reviewer 3: 4. (Can be ignored if signing gets removed, see 1.) What object is used to convey the signed Authz Request in this step? Is it `request` as defined in JAR? NOTE: For OAuth2 backwards compatibility, `client_id` has to be provided always as a query string parameter (outside of the Request Object) as well.

Author: good question. I think we should use `request` with the content like described in the diagram being request_uri, request_uri_mode (and optionally client_id_scheme).

Author: modified diagram and text to send the signed object as `request`

activate w

> w --> w: check authorization request signature

Reviewer 3: 5. We need to add similar language as described in Connect/JAR that says that if the `request_uri` Request Object contains the same parameters as in the initial Authz Request, the `request_uri` Request Object has priority.

Author: I guess we need to add this in the spec text? Please add the respective comment(s) where you would like to see it added.

Reviewer: It seems quite normative to me and this comment/request4change should be moved in the normative text and not in this sequence diagram example

do you agree @awoie ?

Author: added requested normative text

https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VP/pull/59/commits/acd0c135d3cdcbb485286b0911cb1a17a5298f68

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Wallet MUST extract the set of authorization request parameters from the Request Object returned from the Verifier's request URI. The Wallet MUST only use the parameters in this Request Object, even if the same parameter was provided in an authorization request query parameter or a request object passed in the authorization request through the `request` parameter. The Client ID value in the `client_id` authorization request parameter (or `request` object claim) and the `client_id` claim in the Request Object obtained from the Request URI MUST be identical. The Wallet then validates the request, as specified in OAuth 2.0 [RFC6749].
```

IMO, it is important that the `client_id` from the authz request matches the `client_id` from the Request URI endpoint. The requirement that `client_id` from `request` parameter must match `client_id` from Authz Request is already defined in RFC9101.

> w --> w: check on trustworthiness of Verifier (approach on trust mechanism)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
w --> w: evaluate the reliability of the Verifier (trust evaluation).
```

Reviewer 2: reliability is not the right association with trust evaluation imo

Author: I think trust (or trustworthiness) is the right term. If there is no trust, the Wallet should not send a request to the Verifier's request URI.

> w --> rp: POST **request_uri** (\n[OPTIONALstate,\n[OPTIONAL]issuer, \n[OPTIONAL]wallet_metadata, \n[OPTIONAL]w_nonce, \n[OPTIONAL]w_ephm_key)

Reviewer 3: 6. Remove `issuer` in this step since the `issuer` is REQUIRED in `wallet_metadata`.
7. Remove `w_ephm_key` from step 6 since `jwks`/`jwks_uri` can be included in `wallet_metadata`. The wallet acts as an AS and makes their keys discoverable.
8. Rename `w_nonce` to `as_nonce`.

Author: > 7\. Remove `w_ephm_key` from step 6 since `jwks`/`jwks_uri` can be included in `wallet_metadata`. The wallet acts as an AS and makes their keys discoverable.

Given your proposal (6) that would mean a wallet wanting to receive an encrypted presentation using an ephm key request MUST NOT use the `issuer` based metadata discovery. We might also consider to allow for both parameters `issuer` and `wallet_metadata` with the rule that `wallet_metadata` parameters preced or MUST be disjunct from data obtained from the well-known location. WDYT?

Author: > 8\. Rename `w_nonce` to `issuer_nonce` (as in AS provided), or `pmx_nonce` (as in referring to the post metadata exchange request URI mode).

done

Reviewer 3: > > 7. Remove `w_ephm_key` from step 6 since `jwks`/`jwks_uri` can be included in `wallet_metadata`. The wallet acts as an AS and makes their keys discoverable.
> 
> Given your proposal (6) that would mean a wallet wanting to receive an encrypted presentation using an ephm key request MUST NOT use the `issuer` based metadata discovery. We might also consider to allow for both parameters `issuer` and `wallet_metadata` with the rule that `wallet_metadata` parameters preced or MUST be disjunct from data obtained from the well-known location. WDYT?

I provided a suggestion today, see below. It is easier to discuss below.

rp --> wm: [OPTIONAL] get wallet metadata
wm --> rp: [OPTIONAL] wallet metadata
rp -> rp: create and sign (and optionally encrypt) presentation request object (client_id, w_nonce, nonce, response_uri, \npresentation_definition, state)
rp --> w: **signed (optionally encrypted) request object** (client_id, w_nonce, nonce, response_uri, \npresentation_definition, state)

> note over u, w: do we want to allow unsigned presentation request objects, too?

Reviewer 3: 9. To this question, imo, we should allow unsigned Authz Request objects but then the same rules as in JAR apply which is setting a dedicated parameter `require_signed_request_object` to `false` in the Authz Request.

Author: require_signed_request_object is a metadata parameter - are you suggesting the wallet should have that in its metadata, set to false? I think it is a bit tricky since we use JAR twice, for the request and the request_uri.

w -> w: authenticate and\n authorize Verifier

> note over u, w: user authentication and credential selection/confirmation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
note over u, w: User authentication and Credential selection/confirmation
```

w -> w: create verifiable\npresentation (credential)

> w --> rb: POST response \n(vp_token, presentation_submission, state)

Reviewer 3: 10. It might be good to show that `nonce` is included in the `vp_token`.

Author: I tried to express the association knowing the way the nonce is incorporated depends on the credential format.

> rb --> w: redirect_url

Reviewer 3: 11. Some step is missing between this step and the previous one.

Author: what step in particular?

Author: added internal processing at the response endpoint (check state, store vp_token & create redirect_url)

> w --> u: response (response_code)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
w --> u: redirect (response_code)
```

> u --> r: response (response_code)

Reviewer 3: 11. In step 15, I'd remove the `response_code` until made it REQUIRED or normatively defined. IMO, this is required before we do ID-3.

Author: The diagram could basically end with the redirect from the wallet to the verifier as anything after that is at the discretion of the verifier. I'm not sure this would help readability of the diagram.

> u --> r: response (response_code)

Author: ```suggestion
u --> r: redirect (response_code)
```

activate r
r --> rb: get presentation response\n (transaction_id, response_code)
rb --> r: presentation response
r -> r: validate presentation \n(incl. nonce binding)

> r -> r: use presented credential 

Reviewer 3: 12. Remove these steps since they are out-of-scope of OID4VP atm.

Author: the same holds true (normatively) for steps 44, 45, 46 as well, however we show them to give more context

> @enduml

Reviewer 3: In general, I like the `request_uri_mode` approach much better but here are a few comments on the diagram:

1. Not clear why request in step 2 has to be signed. This does not add any security. I'd rather provide the Authz Request parameters unsigned. NOTE: JAR does not sign `client_id` either if `request_uri` (or `request`) is used in the Authorization Request.
2. (Can be ignored if signing gets removed, see 1.) What object is used to convey the signed Authz Request in step 2? Is it `request` as defined in JAR? NOTE: For OAuth2 backwards compatibility, `client_id` has to be provided always as a query string parameter (outside of the Request Object) as well.
3. We need to add similar language as described in Connect/JAR that says that if the `request_uri` Request Object contains the same parameters as in the initial Authz Request, the `request_uri` Request Object has priority.
4. I believe there is a typo in step 2: `request_uri_mode=create`, it should rather be `request_uri_mode=POST`.
5. I would rename the `request_uri_mode=POST` to `request_uri_mode=post_metadata_exchange`. This indicates additional AS metadata is provided plus a `w_nonce`.
6. Remove `issuer` in step 6 since the `issuer` is REQUIRED in `wallet_metadata`.
7. Remove `w_ephm_key` from step 6 since `jwks`/`jwks_uri` can be included in `wallet_metadata`. The wallet acts as an AS and makes their keys discoverable.
6. Rename `w_nonce` to `as_nonce`.
7. To your question between step 10 and 11, imo, we should allow unsigned Authz Request objects but then the same rules as in JAR apply which is setting a dedicated parameter `require_signed_request_object` to `false` in the Authz Request.
8. In step 13, it might be good to show that `nonce` is included in the `vp_token`.
9. In step 15, I'd remove the `response_code` until made it REQUIRED or normatively defined. IMO, this is required before we do ID-3.
10. Between step 13 and step 14, something is missing.
11. Change "response" in step 15 to "redirect"; remove `response_code` for the same reason as given in 9.
12. Same as above but applied to step 16.
13. Remove steps 17-20 since they are out-of-scope of OID4VP atm.
